#summary PAnalyzer: A software tool for protein inference in shotgun proteomics.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

== Original article ==

Prieto G, Aloria K, Osinalde N, Fullaondo A, Arizmendi JM, Matthiesen R: *PAnalyzer: A software tool for protein inference in shotgun proteomics.* _BMC bioinformatics_ 2012, *13*:288.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-13-288

URL: http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/13/288

== Description ==

PAnalyzer uses as input protein identification files in mzIdentML (v1.0.0 and v1.1.0) or Waters PLGS formats and re-arranges the proteins into evidence categories according to their shared peptides.

Protein evidence categories considered are: conclusive, non-conclusive, ambiguous group and indistinguishable proteins.

== Multiple replicate runs ==

Multirun analysis is also supported and peptides are filtered if they are not present in a minimum number of replicate runs specified by the user. If all the peptides of a protein are filtered, the protein is also filtered.

== Output ==

Results are saved to a CSV file (useful for processing using a spreadsheet) and an HTML report is also generated for allowing an easy browse. If a single mzIdentML file is used as input, an mzIdentML output is also generated.

= Installation =

1. Download the latest zip available for your operating system
 * GNU/Linux: http://ehu-bio.googlecode.com/files/PAnalyzer-v1.0-Linux.tar.gz
 * Mac OS X http://ehu-bio.googlecode.com/files/PAnalyzer-v1.0-MacOSX.zip
 * Windows: http://ehu-bio.googlecode.com/files/PAnalyzer-v1.0-Windows.zip

2. Extract all the files in the zip to any location

3. Install the free software Mono .NET framework with GTK# support (required for all platforms). You can download the framework for GNU/Linux, Mac OS X, Windows, etc. from here: 

 http://www.go-mono.com/mono-downloads/download.html

 If you use Ubuntu you can simply install the package "mono-runtime" instead.

Probably you also want some initial protein samples:

 http://ehu-bio.googlecode.com/files/Protein-Samples.zip

= Execution =

Specific launchers are provided for the different platforms:

 * GNU/Linux: just click on _PAnalyzer.exe_ or execute _PAnalyzer.sh_ from a console, which will automatically install the mono runtime if not detected

 * Mac OS X: just click on the _PAnalyzer_ application

 * Windows: just click on _PAnalyzer.bat_ (Mono .NET runtime) or _PAnalyzer.exe_ (Microsoft .NET runtime)

= User instructions =

*Open* one or more protein identification files. Multiple files can be selected by holding the _Ctrl_ key while clicking them.

Wait until PAnalyzer loads and validates the data and then click *Execute* to enter the analysis parameters dialog (only shown if applicable).

Now you can browse the peptide and re-arranged protein list from the user interface, but probably you prefer using the HTML output report. To generate it just click *Save* and select the destination directory and file name.